# Hotel-California
 Assignment 4 of DAT 154 - Software Architecture and Application Development - (feb 2021)
 
 This assignment was performed in one week by a team of four people, following the rules below.
 
The main idea behind this project is that youwill demonstrate your understanding and ability to use the technologies and theory from this course, as well as your ability to research and learn related technologies on your own.GroupThe project is to be done in groups of 3-6students.All participants of a group should be familiar with all parts of the project. You may be asked questions about any part of your application during the oral exam.TaskFor this project, you will create a hotel management system with the componentslisted below.Remember to plan the architecture of your applicationsuite andconsider the architectural styles from the lectures and the book, and perhaps styles from other sources.Try your best to best to get this working as intended, but don’t get hung up on tiny details. Make sure to prioritize getting things to actually talk to each other rather than attempting to finish one thing at a time, just to discover the solutionyou chose won’t work when you add the next app. If you are unsure about the requirements below, use your best judgement to interpret them, it’s better to be able to continue working rather than being stuck for multiple hours waiting for a reply from a teacher.-A web application for customers to book rooms and check the status of their reservation. A simple login system is therefore required, but don’t waste too much time on this, make it simple. Note that users should book their room based on room properties (number of beds, room size/quality, etc.) and not the room number itself.  You'll probably want to associate any booking with a room number behind the scenes though, to make it easier to search for available rooms.The user should be able to search for available rooms in a given time period, including searching by room properties.-A desktop application used by the front desk of the hotel. This application should have full access to manage all the rooms and reservations of the hotel. The users should be able to add new reservations and delete reservations andassociate a reservation with a particular room.It should also be used when guests check in and out.This program should also be used to register room service and maintenance requests for rooms-A Windows Universalapp. This app is used by the cleaning, service and maintenance personnel. When the app loads, the user should be able to choose if he is a maintainer, cleaner, or service person. Once selected, the app should display a list of pending tasks, rooms where guests have checked out,but which have not been cleaned yet for the cleaners, room service requests for the service personnel and maintenance requests for the maintenance people. The users of the app should be able to change the status of the app through the interface (new, in progress, finished), and attach notes to it (Which will be visible in the desktop app).
The tasks above should be solved using .NET andbased upon the theory fromthe lectures.Some code will naturally be the same for several of the main parts, so you are to identify this code, change it appropriately so it can be reused, and put this into a library bundled with the applications.Note that a Universal App have a bunch more restrictionsthan a regular desktop app anddoesn’t really like to talk to a database directly. The best option is tomake the web application publish a rest api which the Universal App can use)To successfully dothis task, you will probably need to read up and learn a bit on your own. Remember that Google and the MSDN Library are your friends.Also note that there are several technologies available in .NET to choose from when solving the tasks above. It is up to you to figure out the best technology to use in each instance. You may even consider technologies we have nottalked about in class, like Web Services (.NET supports both SOAP and REST).SoftwareTo successfully complete this project, you will need:➢Visual Studio 2019. If you do nothave this already, it is availablefrom your Azure DevTools account.➢A database. I recommend just getting Microsoft SQL Server 2019from Azure DevToolsand install it on yourdeveloper computer, but I can also set up a database foryou on dat154.hvl.no.➢A web server. The IIS Express is installed along with Visual Studio, and will work fine, just remember to set your web project to use static port numbers, otherwise the universalapp becomes a hassle.
